=head1 NAME

otpd - One-Time Password authentication daemon

=head1 SYNOPSIS

otpd [options]

=over 4

=item B<-c> I<file>	use config file I<file>

=item B<-u> I<user>	run as user I<user>

=item B<-p> I<rp>	listen to plugins at rendezvous point I<rp>

=item B<-f>		run in foreground

=item B<-d> I<level>	set log level to I<level>

=item B<-D>		set log level to max

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<otpd> is part of a suite of software for authenticating users with
handheld OTP tokens.  An authentication server handles the
authentication protocol (such as RADIUS), and via a plugin, passes the
username and OTP to B<otpd>, which then determines if the OTP is valid.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-c> I<file>

The config file to use.  The default is F</etc/otpd.conf>.

=item B<-u> I<user>

Change uid to I<user> at startup.

=item B<-p> I<rp>

Where to listen for plugin connections.
The default is F</var/run/otpd/socket>.

=item B<-f>

Run in the foreground.  The default is to become a daemon.

=item B<-d> I<level>

Log diagnostics up to level I<level>.  Use syslog priority levels emerg
through debug, and the additional levels debug1 through debug8 (useful
for source code debugging).  The debug1 through debug8 levels are
logged at syslog debug priority.  The default is debug, with filtering
to a more reasonable verbosity (info or notice) expected to be done in
syslog.conf.

=item B<-D>

Equivalent to B<-f -d debug8>.

=back

Command line options override config file settings.

=head1 FILES

F</etc/otpd.conf>, F</etc/otppasswd>

=head1 SEE ALSO

otppasswd(5), gsmd(8), README

=head1 URL

L<http://www.tri-dsystems.com/>
