=head1 NAME

otppasswd - secrets file for otpd

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F</etc/otppasswd> file contains the secrets used to authenticate users
that hold One-Time Password (OTP) tokens.  Each entry is a single line 
with colon-delimited fields of the form:

  username:tokenid:key[:pin]

The C<pin> field is optional.

The C<key> and C<pin> fields may be encrypted; see otp.conf for a
description of valid encryption modes and key specification.

=head1 VALID CHARACTERS

In addition to the restrictions noted below, the C<:> (colon) and
C< > (space) characters are not valid for any field.

=head2 username

C<E<lt>>, C<=>, C<E<gt>>, C<*> and C<~> are invalid characters.
C<!> (bang) by itself (as a single character username) is also invalid.
All other printing characters are valid.

=head2 tokenid

All printing characters are valid for the C<tokenid> field.

=head2 key

Only hex digits are valid for the C<key> field: [0-9a-fA-F].
The key field can be up to 256 octets (512 hex digits) long, however
the valid size is determined by the type of token.

=head2 pin

Only hex digits are valid for the C<pin> field: [0-9a-fA-F].
The C<pin> field should consist of the hex value for an ASCII PIN.
PINs can be up to 16 characters (32 hex digits) long.  Note that
since the PIN is represented as hex, the C<:> (colon) and C< > (space)
restriction noted earlier does not apply.

=head1 EXAMPLE

The entry

  bob:trid-hard-hotp-d6-e8:000102030405060708090A0B0C0D0E0F10111213:3132333435

defines the user C<bob>, who holds a C<trid-hard-hotp-d6-e8> token, with key
C<00...13>, and PIN C<12345>.  (Somebody change the combination on my
luggage.)

=head1 TOKEN IDS

Token support for otpd(8) is provided by plug-in B<cardops modules>.
This section describes the token ids supported by modules that are
included with otpd(8).

=head2 trid

The C<trid> module supports tokens made by TRI-D Systems.  These tokens
are either time+event or just event synchronous and use either the HOTP
or the TOTP algorithm.

=over 4

=item trid-I<formfactor>-I<algorithm>-dI<digits>-eI<events>

I<formfactor> describes the class of token, either a C<hard> (physical)
token or a C<soft> (software) token.
I<algorithm> is either C<hotp> (RFC 4226 HOTP, time-based), C<eotp> (RFC
4226 HOTP, event-based) or C<totp> (TRI-D modified HOTP, time-based).
I<digits> is the number of OTP digits (6-8 for hard HOTP, 6-9 for soft
HOTP, 6-16 for TOTP).  I<events> is the number of events allowed per
time cycle (1-16, powers of 2).  For example, C<trid-hard-hotp-d6-e4>.
Event based tokens do not have the C<-e> field, e.g. C<trid-hard-eotp-d6>.

=back

=head2 cryptocard

The C<cryptocard> module supports tokens made by CRYPTOCard.  These tokens
are event synchronous and use the X9.9 algorithm.

=over 4

=item cryptocard-I<display>-I<mode>

I<display> specifies both the representation (C<h> for hex or C<d>
for decimal) and the number of digits (7, 8, or C<p> for phone).
Phone mode is the same as 7-digit mode, except that the user is
expected to actually enter the C<-> (dash) shown on the token
display in 7-digit mode.  For example, C<h8> describes an 8-digit
hex display, and C<dp> describes a 7-digit decimal display using
phone mode.

I<mode> specifies the token's sync mode settings; C<rc> for
"random challenge" or async-only mode, C<es> for "event sync"
or sync-only mode, and C<rs> for "random sync" or either mode.

For example, C<cryptocard-d7-es>.

=back

=head2 hotp

The C<hotp> module supports a generic event synchronous HOTP token,
using a 160-bit key and varying response lengths.

=over 4

=item hotp-dI<digits>

I<digits> is the number of OTP digits (6-9).  For example, hotp-d6.

=back

=head2 x99

The C<x99> module supports a generic asynchronous X9.9 token,
with 7 or 8 digit hex or decimal response.

=over 4

=item x99-I<display>

I<display> specifies both the representation (C<h> for hex or C<d>
for decimal) and the number of digits (7 or 8).  For example,
C<x99-d7>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

otpd(8), lsmd(8), gsmd(8), README

=head1 URL

L<http://www.tri-dsystems.com/>
