=head1 NAME

resynctool - Manual resync tool for TRI-D event-based HOTP tokens

=head1 SYNOPSIS

resynctool -1 I<otp1> -2 I<otp2> [options]

=over 4

=item B<-1> I<otp1>		first OTP I<otp1>

=item B<-2> I<otp2>		second OTP I<otp2>

=item B<-u> I<user>		emit state for user I<user>

=item B<-k> I<key>		use key I<key>

=item B<-c> I<challenge>	set initial counter value from I<challenge>

=item B<-i> I<counter>	initial I<counter> value to test

=item B<-f> I<counter>	final I<counter> value to test

=back

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Event-based tokens generate an OTP by using an B<event counter> as input
to the OTP algorithm.  The event counter is incremented on each use of
the token.

Unlike time-based tokens, event-based tokens can get out of sync with the
server due to network issues or misuse.  The I<rwindow_size> setting in
F</etc/otpd.conf> is used to search over a larger range of event counter
values (starting from the last known good counter) than normal, and can
be used to overcome sync problems to some extent, but it is not advised
to set it very large as it creates more work for the server, and therefore
with "severe" sync problems the user may become effectively locked out.

When using LDAP with B<otpd>, a user-specific I<rwindow_size> setting
can be made, which allows the user to self-resync.  The TRI-D Systems
Professional Edition software also comes with a web application that
administrators or users can use to make this job easy.

When using files with B<otpd>, user-specific settings are not available,
and therefore B<resynctool> is provided.  Some sites may want to use it
with LDAP as well.

To use B<resynctool>, give the username, token key and two consecutive
freshly generated OTPs.  B<resynctool> will output the state data which
will resync the user.  Suggested usage (wrap this in a script):

  resynctool -u USER -k ... -1 123456 -2 123456 >/dev/null &&
  resynctool -u USER -k ... -1 123456 -2 123456 >/etc/otpstate/USER

B<resynctool> is designed to work with TRI-D event-based HOTP tokens,
however it will work with any event-based HOTP token which uses a counter
that increments by one for each subsequent use of the token.  (RFC 4226
does not specify how the counter should be derived.)

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-1> I<otp1>

The first of two consecutive OTPs.

=item B<-2> I<otp2>

The second of two consecutive OTPs.

=item B<-u> I<user>

The user that holds the token; it is necessary for the state data.
If not provided, a generic value will be used which must then be
replaced with the actual username, otherwise B<otpd> will not
consider the state to be valid.

=item B<-k> I<key>

The token secret.

=item B<-c> I<challenge>

The last known good challenge (hex counter) value.  It is an 8
octet value (16 hex digits), stored as the third field of v5
state.  Using this option tells B<resynctool> to begin searching
for candidate event counters at this value instead of at 0.  This
saves work testing event counters that cannot possibly be valid.
To extract the challenge value (work this into your wrapper script):

  cut -d: -f3 /etc/otpstate/USER

=item B<-i> I<counter>

This is an alternative to the B<-c> option.  Instead of a hex
value, this option takes a decimal counter.

=item B<-f> I<counter>

The final (decimal) counter value to test.  By default, B<resynctool>
will test 65536 values before giving up.  If the first character of
I<counter> is C<+> (plus), instead of using I<counter> as an absolute
value it will be added to the initial value.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

otpd(8), lsmd(8), RFC 4226

=head1 URL

L<http://www.tri-dsystems.com/>
